# Halflings

The halflings aren't a numerous people, but they are found nearly everywhere humans live. Only a handful of humans know the secret of the halflings' origin: they once dwelled in the Shadow World, a realm of faerie enchantment parallel to Cerilia. That realm was poisoned by the rise of the Usurper, a gathering evil that corrupted their homeland, and they fled to the daylight world to escape his power. A small number of halflings arrived in Cerilia in time to witness the battle of Mount Deismaar. In the early years of the Anuirean Empire, the halflings left their homes one family at a time, virtually trickling into the human lands.

Living among their larger neighbors, halflings don't see the sense in a government larger than a small village or extended family, and are happy to count themselves as citizens of whatever land surrounds them. It's not unusual to find a handful of halfling farmers near a human village, or a neighborhood of halfling craftsmen in a larger town.

Halflings usually adopt the language, culture, and customs of the Big Folk around them while keeping a few aspects of their own culture. They feel free to use weapons in defense of their homes or families, but will never take up arms against each other—halflings consider fisticuffs the only acceptable form of violence against other halflings.

Cerilian halflings stand about 3½ feet tall and resemble small humans. They tend to be slightly stocky, and are fond of creature comforts. They have resistance to poison and magic as described in the Player's Handbook, gain a +1 bonus to attacks with slings and thrown missile weapons due to their steady hands and sharp eyes, and gain a bonus to surprise opponents. No halfling has infravision or the underground detection abilities associated with Scouts in the PHB.

Halflings possess the ability to see into the Shadow World by concentrating for one round. This allows them to detect evil, detect undead, and detect magic (necromancy only) in the real world with a 75% chance of success. This talent functions as per the wizard spells at the first level of ability, and can be performed as often as a halfling wishes. By concentrating for one round, a halfling is able to perform all three detections at once.

Halflings may also note places where the barriers between worlds are thin, and they may use their innate powers to dimension door or shadow walk (at the 10th-level of ability). Three times per week, a halfling may use any combination of these abilities (but cannot shadow walk three times and dimension door three times). The chance of success depends on the closeness of the Shadow World, ranging from 10% on a sunny summer day in a civilized region to 100% on a cold winter night in a wild area or crypt. Halflings will reveal these abilities only to persons they know and trust.
